= Heerschable Table

The Heerschable Table plugin provides a simple way for creating sortable tables.
It is slightly based on the Thoughtbot sortable table plugin.

== Installation

  script/plugin install git://github.com/dkln/heerschable_table.git

And done!


== Basic usage

Specify in your controller which columns you want to sort. This can be
achieved by using the +sortable_column+ class method:

  class FooBar < ActionController::Base
    sortable_column :name, :id, :updated_at, :email

    def index
      @users = User.find(:all, :order => sorting)
    end

Use the method +sorting+ if you want to retrieve the current column plus sort method.

== Alias

You can alias columns by ommiting a simple hash:

  sortable_column :name, :mail => 'email'

== Rendering table headers

With the helper +table_header+ you can render your table headers.

  table_header 'Fullname', :name
  table_header 'Updated at', :updated_at
  table_header 'Email address', :mail

=== Ajax tables

Ajax tables are more fun than boring simple tables. Why? because you
don't need a page refresh and it just "feels" much more responsive.

As always in Rails, it is a bit of a no brainer. If we would have
a bunch of users, we could do something like this in +index.html.haml+:

  = render(:partial => 'users')

And in +_users.html.haml+:

  #users
    %table
      %tr
        = table_header 'Fullname', :name, :update => 'users'
        = table_header 'Email address', :mail, :update => 'users'

And finally, in your controller:

  def index
    @users = User.find(:all, :order => sorting)

    respond_to do |f|
      f.html
      f.js { render(:partial => 'users') }
    end
  end

Done!

== More than one table?

Is there more than one table on your page? No worries. Just specify a
table id

  sortable_column :name, :updated_at, :id => 'users'
  sortable_column :description, :code, :id => 'activities'

  ..

  @users = User.find(:all, :order => sorting(:users)

In your view you will now need to specify the correct id:

  = table_header 'Fullname', :name, { :update => 'users' }, 'users'

== Credits ==
Use it, send it to your mom, throw it away or extend it will cool new 
stuff. Just stick to the rules of the MIT license :)

Copyright (c) 2009 Diederick Lawson, released under the MIT license
